# Day 2 

## Data science 101
- Speaker - Udara de Silva 

### Intro to dara science 

#### Teams 
Data scientist : machine learning, statistics, prototyping -- clean data and test models
Back end engineer : Database management, software architecture, writign production code -- deploy and scale models 
Commerical project management : business acumnen, client management, team organisation -- managing the relationship between the te4chnical team and client
Front end : Defining useer requirement, building user interface, effective visual presentation -- not always necessary for ml product

- Teams are collaborative 

#### Stages of a project 

- Plan : Product manager works with data scientist to figure out what client needs. Whwat data do tehy have? What is their infrastriucture? What does the inhouse data team do? Decide what the timelines are. Decide what the costs are goign to be.

- Explore : Get the data. Understand if you can solve the problem. Review the feasibility. Determine what type of model could be used going forwards. 

- Model ; Looked at data, cleaned it, preprocessed it. Worked out features to put into model. Test some moodels to find which one works best. Run tests, look at results. Product manager will pull out business value drivers and freport back to cleint. Check if client is happy that this is a scalable solution.

- Deploy : Happy with what has been built. MLEs deplot this into production envireonment. APIs integration. Build monitoriung system to track model performance over time. Understand possible failure points. Perhaps biuld user interface by front end developers.

#### Planning 
How to choose what problem to tackle: 
- Make sure impactful solution 
- Make sure outcomes are actionable - not too many blocks on devivering the solution 
- Tractable questions
- TaCcessible data - can teh data we have solve the problem? Can we get that data on time?

#### Explore
- CAn machine learnign solve the problem? Is it the best solution?
- IS there enough clean data to build an ML algorith,?
- Do plots indicate teh business question can be answered with data?
- BAsically - is the project feasible and is it something we shold go ahead with?

#### Model 
- Simplest model first 
- BAselines model before bespoke ones 
- EAsily debuggable 
- Diminisning returns - more complicated models require greater effort for smaller imporovements

#### Deployment 
- Do not throw models over the fence 
- Instead, work closely between data science and mle
- Consequences of ineffective handover include - team conflicts, deployment delays, costly downtime.

#### When the project doesn't work

- Early in the project -- try different approach / alternative datasets / help from someone with a similar proejct 
- Later in the project -- stop investign time on ambitious ideas / look for simpler ideas that devliver business value / capitalise on insights obtained so far 
- Always -- Inform the client / be annopying and message the company 

### Case studies 
Previous fellowship plays could happen at any given time projects 

#### Rugby team 
- Understandin how opponents play ahead of games 
- PReviosuly they rewatch games and see how they play manually 
-  Solution was dashboard that uses decision trees to decide what potential

#### Safe route not short route 
- Collect available data usong googles api
- DEvelop a route fiding algorithm that is safe 


### Project management guidelines 
Example : Airline 

#### Planning  
- Background 
- Objective 
- Scope 
- Approach 
- Timeline 
- Risks 
- Assumptions 
- Define baselines 
- Data 
- Client map

#### Project management  
Good project management should: 
- Deliver project in timelines 
- Havea grip of 'where you are' in the projectg 
- Reduce risk of 'dropping the ball'
- Meet client expectations 
- This should be done regularly for a small amount of time 

#### How to devliver a successful project plan 
- Check in with commerical and technical mentor in first week 
- Bullt points of what youd like to do week to week to make sure you deliver project to desired time;liens 
- Show to mentor and ask for feedback 
- Then build an initial plan on gannt chart or slide template 
- This will then be shared to the client in week 1 
- We can then tell the client what we need and when we need it 

- Write a weekly status report 
- What I have done this week 
- What I will do 
- TImeleins whoing where we are in the roadmap in terms of a milestone 
- Risk slide - e.g. risk that we dont get hthis data and if we dont then X will happen\

- Don't spend much time writing presentaitons - use a pre template etc 


